docs(core): edit and add docs for ng-template (#42704)
angular/angular: aio/content/special-elements/core/ng-template.md

With `<ng-template>`, you can define template content that is only being rendered by Angular when you (directly or not) specifically instruct it to do so, allowing you to have full control over how and when the content is displayed.

Relevant aspects of `<ng-template>` elements, include that they:
- **are used by structural directives**

    [Structural directives](/guide/structural-directives) are build on top of `<ng-template>` elements which enable the directives to add and remove DOM elements based on specific logic.

    Such implementation is generally abstracted by Angular and using such directive can be used simply by using the provided [structural directive shorthand](/guide/structural-directives#structural-directive-shorthand).

- **yield `TemplateRef` objects**

   `<ng-template>` tags generate instances of the `TemplateRef` class which is what Angular needs to make use of the defined templates content.

- **can be used directly in templates**

    `<ng-template>` elements can be references using [standard template variables](/guide/template-reference-variables#how-angular-assigns-values-to-template-variables).

>     _This is for example how `<ng-template>` elements are used as [ngIf](/api/common/NgIf) else clauses._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    _This is how `<ng-template>` elements are used as [ngIf](/api/common/NgIf) else clauses._
```

>     Such template variables can also be used to reference `<ng-template>` elements in the component's template when using [`ngTemplateOutlet`](/api/common/NgTemplateOutlet) directives.

Reviewer: Should we show an example of this too?

Author: again this is already presented in the `ngTemplateOutlet` docs and since they are referenced there directly it is very straightforward for visitors to just click the link and see the example

so I am not totally sure, I do can put a small example anyway if you feel it'd be good

please let me know what you think about it :slightly_smiling_face:

> - **can be used to programmatically**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Querying for templates
```

>     A [Query](/api/core/Query) can find the `TemplateRef` associated to an `<ng-template>` element and then it can be used to directly create embedded views using the `ViewContainerRef`'s `createEmbeddedView` method.

Reviewer: I think it might be better to talk about ContentQuery and ViewQuery explicitly rather than the generic Query class... what do you think?

An example would also be very helpful here.

Author: About the generic `Query` I kind of just followed the [`templateRef` docs](https://angular.io/api/core/TemplateRef#description), I may amend it I'd imagine (would you also like me to chage the `templateRef` docs?)

About the example, yeah I actually had a quick look and at a first glance no such example does not seem to in the docs, so that would definitely be a good addition :slightly_smiling_face: 

but I am not 100% sure if it should be added here or in the `templateRef` docs, as it is kind of more related to that, what do you think?

Reviewer: I think you are right that this doc should just reference the detail (including examples) in other docs.
If there is no example for this, perhaps an extra PR with such an example would be a good future task.

- **have a context**

>     Inside the `<ng-template>` tags developers can reference variables present in the outer template in which the elements are defined, moreover `<ng-template>` elements can also have an associated context object containing variables which can be accessed via template (`let` and `as`) declarations.

Reviewer: Can we provide an example of how to do this?

Author: maybe, but this is already covered in the [`NgTemplateOutlet` docs](https://angular.io/api/common/NgTemplateOutlet)

maybe I could put an example using `createEmbeddedView`?

Angular's `<ng-template>` element defines a template that is not rendered by default.

With `<ng-template>`, you can define template content that is only being rendered by Angular when you (directly or not) specifically instruct it to do so, allowing you to have full control over how and when the content is displayed.

@usageNotes

### Structural Directives

One of the main uses for `<ng-template>` is to hold template content that will be used by [Structural directives](/guide/structural-directives). Those directives can add and remove copies of the template content based on their own logic.

> > When using the [structural directive shorthand](/guide/structural-directives#structural-directive-shorthand), Angular creates an `<ng-template>` element behind the scenes.

Author: I tired using `>` here and below.... I am not completely sure about the result...

Reviewer: I think we should avoid block quotes. They are not used in any of our other docs.
If you want to call out this paragraph then you could use an [alert or callout](https://angular.io/guide/docs-style-guide#alerts-and-callouts).
```

Author: yeah I considered using alerts, but they seems to be too strong, this text is not that important

I think I'll just leave it as normal text

### TemplateRef

`<ng-template>` elements are represented as instances of the `TemplateRef` class.

> This class exposes methods to make use of the defined template's content.

Reviewer: Actually i don't think one generally uses this object directly, right?
Instead what about saying:

```suggestion
Pass this object to `ViewContainerRef.createEmbeddedView()` in order to add copies of the template to the DOM.
```

Author: you where the one who suggested that change! :stuck_out_tongue_winking_eye: 

anyway I am not totally convinced in mentioning `createEmbeddedView` here, as it is already mentioned below, and also `TemplateRef`s have more broad uses, for example they are used by `ngTemplateOutlet`

so I will change the text, but it's ok with you I would try to keep it generic here :slightly_smiling_face:

Reviewer: Sorry if I misled you with my suggestions. They are more a guide than a requirement.
As long as these are technically correct, we can leave the docs-team to decide upon stylistic and language improvements.

Author: nono no need to apologise I was kidding :sweat: 

(and I so much appreciate all your help :slightly_smiling_face: )

I'll think of something to put here :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: Actually I have been thinking and it is a bit redundant to mention that the `TemplateRef` gets used by `ngTemplateOutlet` as that is sort of implied below, so there is no point in mentioning that again here

Besides that and `createEmbeddedView` I am not really sure if there are other uses of `TemplateRef`s to be honest :cry: 

 So I am just going with what you suggested, though I wonder if mentioning twice `ViewContainerRef.createEmbeddedView()` will look ugly :thinking:

### Template Variables

`<ng-template>` elements can be referenced in templates using [standard template variables](/guide/template-reference-variables#how-angular-assigns-values-to-template-variables).

> _This is how `<ng-template>` elements are used as `ngIf` else clauses._

Such template variables can be used in conjunction with `ngTemplateOutlet` directives to render the content defined inside `<ng-template>` tags.

### Querying

> A [Query](/api/core/Query) (such as `ViewChild`) can find the `TemplateRef` associated to an `<ng-template>` element so that it can be used programmatically. Generally to directly create embedded views via the `ViewContainerRef`'s `createEmbeddedView` method.

Reviewer: This last sentence doesn't make sense to me:

> Generally to directly create embedded views via the `ViewContainerRef`'s `createEmbeddedView` method.

Did you mean something like:

> For instance, to pass it to the `ViewContainerRef.createEmbeddedView()` method.

Author: Sorry if my wording is confusing, what I tried to convey is that the most common use of a queried `TemplateRef` is to create a view using `createEmbeddedView` and that it id done directly as opposed to other views which created indirectly (by Angular)

I'll amend this thanks :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: Sorry I just noticed that with `ViewContainerRef.createEmbeddedView()` we don't get the text to link to the method

Would the original version not be ok for you? 
```
`ViewContainerRef`'s `createEmbeddedView()` method
```

Author: Alternatively I could even go with: 
```
`ViewContainerRef`.`createEmbeddedView()`
```
which would look like this:
![Screenshot at 2021-07-01 19-02-56](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/61631103/124170236-16aca300-da9f-11eb-9674-52a10966f901.png)

Author: or I can just copy what the TemplateRef docs do:
![Screenshot at 2021-07-01 19-08-44](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/61631103/124170927-d568c300-da9f-11eb-8500-bf9f6926c0b4.png)

as in:
![Screenshot at 2021-07-01 19-11-28](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/61631103/124171240-34c6d300-daa0-11eb-802c-2c9708f37a13.png)

Reviewer: Gosh! You are right. We should actually fix the auto-code linker to handle that better. But in the meantime, feel free to choose a form that you feel works best for you. Perhaps copying the `TemplateRef` approach for consistency?

Author: ok yeah, I just copied `TemplateRef`'s approach then :slightly_smiling_face:

### Context

> Inside the `<ng-template>` tags you can reference variables present in the surrounding outer template, additionally a context objects can be associated to `<ng-template>` elements, such object can contain variables which can be accessed within the element via template (`let` and `as`) declarations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside the `<ng-template>` tags you can reference variables present in the surrounding outer template.
Additionally, a context object can be associated with `<ng-template>` elements.
Such an object contains variables which can be accessed from within the template contents via template (`let` and `as`) declarations.
```

Angular's `<ng-template>` element defines a template that is not rendered by default.

> With `<ng-template>`, you can define template content that is only being rendered by Angular when you (directly or not) specifically instruct it to do so, allowing you to have full control over how and when the content is displayed.

Author: Yeah I didn't see that before but that "specifically" part definitely needs improvements, I will look into it thanks! :slightly_smiling_face:

> With `<ng-template>`, you can define template content that is only being rendered by Angular when you (directly or not) specifically instruct it to do so, allowing you to have full control over how and when the content is displayed.

Author: About the "Further information available in the Usage Notes..."

That text is being set by dgeni in the docs generation as you can see here:
https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/9d58ebfcee7aef63b71bc133fc9f172d63fc9b14/aio/tools/transforms/templates/api/includes/description.html#L5

(and it is generated by the "@usages" below)

So I am not 100% sure if I can just change that as I am afraid that that is just out of scope here and also I am not sure how many docs actually use it, maybe I could investigate a bit and create a new PR for that change...

anyway I just wanted to say that it'd be a global change and is by no means restricted to this file

@petebacondarwin could you please advice on what to do here? :slightly_smiling_face:

@usageNotes

### Structural Directives

One of the main uses for `<ng-template>` is to hold template content that will be used by [Structural directives](/guide/structural-directives). Those directives can add and remove copies of the template content based on their own logic.

When using the [structural directive shorthand](/guide/structural-directives#structural-directive-shorthand), Angular creates an `<ng-template>` element behind the scenes.

### TemplateRef

`<ng-template>` elements are represented as instances of the `TemplateRef` class.

> Pass this object to the `ViewContainerRef` method `createEmbeddedView()` in order to add copies of the template to the DOM.

Author: yeah your version looks nicer and clearer thanks! :slightly_smiling_face:

### Template Variables

`<ng-template>` elements can be referenced in templates using [standard template variables](/guide/template-reference-variables#how-angular-assigns-values-to-template-variables).

_This is how `<ng-template>` elements are used as `ngIf` else clauses._

Such template variables can be used in conjunction with `ngTemplateOutlet` directives to render the content defined inside `<ng-template>` tags.

### Querying

A [Query](/api/core/Query) (such as `ViewChild`) can find the `TemplateRef` associated to an `<ng-template>` element so that it can be used programmatically. For instance, to pass it to the `ViewContainerRef` method `createEmbeddedView()`.

### Context
Inside the `<ng-template>` tags you can reference variables present in the surrounding outer template.
Additionally, a context object can be associated with `<ng-template>` elements.

> Such an object contains variables which can be accessed from within the template contents via template (`let` and `as`) declarations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Such an object contains variables that can be accessed from within the template contents via template (`let` and `as`) declarations.
```
